Dhanopinion investment process – in simple stepsDear Investor,Thank you for your interest in Dhanopinion’s investment advisory service. On this page you will find a set of steps that Dhanopinion recommends you go through in order to discover the most suitable investment avenues for yourself. You can use this service in complete confidentiality—we do not collect personal details such as your name, phone number, or email address.At any stage, if you wish to discuss your situation with one of our advisors and receive specific, personalized advice, please click the “Connect to Advisor” button. You’ll then be asked to share your contact details so our team can reach you. You can also write to us at contact@dhanopinion.com.This service uses the new income tax regime for all decisions and illustrations, as over 70% of returns for FY 24-25 were filed under it and adoption is expected to grow.We hope this advisory service provides you with the key inputs you need to move forward in your investment journey. Before proceeding, please read the Terms & Conditions and move forward only if you agree with them.We wish you a successful investing journey!— The Dhanopinion TeamStep 1 – Debt CheckBefore investing, it is important to evaluate your debt situation. Paying high interest on debt while expecting lower returns from investments is counterproductive.Do you currently have debt which has a cost of 10% p.a. interest or higher?If Yes, paying down debt may be better than investing as investment returns are unlikely to exceed 10% p.a. sustainably.If No, you can move to the next step and initiate the investing journey.At the same time, you should bear in mind that the 10% indicative threshold is for growth-oriented investments such as equity. If your primary investment target is debt investments, then you should use 7% as the benchmark instead of 10%, to determine if you should pare down debt or invest.Notes: Please ensure that tax implications are factored in. In case of some debt servicing payments, financial benefits such as setoffs against income may be available, lowering your tax liability.The 10% and 7% numbers used are indicative and relevant to the economic environment in Q2 of 2026. If the economic environment changes, eg. inflation rises, increasing the cost of money, the indicative rates used should change as well.Step 2 – Allocation between Equity and DebtOK! You have cleared the first hurdle of the debt check and decided that you are ready to invest.Your portfolio should balance equity (stocks, mutual funds) and debt (bonds, fixed income, government schemes). But how much to invest in debt and how much in equity is a personal choice. This decision is known as the allocation decision which is what you need to make at this stage.This allocation, or division, is also referred to as the growth vs. income decision. How much money are you willing to squirrel away into growth investments that will, hopefully, deliver superior returns over an extended period of time, and how much will you invest in income-generating investments that deliver predictable, if lower, returns, on a regular basis?While the exact numbers might vary, most experts agree that the two variables that should influence the decision are the investor’s age and risk tolerance:The lower the age of the investor, the higher the allocation to equityThe lower the risk tolerance of the investor, the lower the allocation to equity.Allocation numbers are not cast in stone. They should anyway be adjusted periodically for changing age and risk tolerance levels. They can also be adjusted for any other factor the investor wishes to take into account.For allocation strategies, read our article on Allocation.Step 3 – Emergency FundsAn unplanned pulling out from an investment can cause severe damage to the portfolio in several ways:Liquidating equity investments in a downward spiral can impair the returns and limit the potential to bounce back during an upswing.Liquidating debt investments can invite penalties and lower than assured returns.Hence, it is recommended that a part of the investment intended for debt instruments be invested for such emergencies in suitable instruments. These typically include:Bank Fixed Deposits – Can be liquidated immediately. Many banks also offer the service of liquidating an FD automatically to cover shortfalls in a linked Savings account.Liquid or Overnight Mutual Funds – These can be liquidated within 24 hours and serve the ‘urgent but not immediate’ category of requirement. Choose from the largest in the category to get the benefit of cost efficiency. Example (as of June 2025, Liquid Funds):FundCorpus (INR mn)10-yr Annualized ReturnSBI Liquid688,7056.28%HDFC Liquid643,9766.28%Aditya Birla Liquid568,4036.28%ICICI Pru Liquid499,9996.33%Define the emergency liquidity you could need, including how much could be required immediately and how much within the next 24-48 hours. Invest that in the two instruments above and the balance in other debt instruments shared in the section on fixed income investing.Step 4 – Investing in Equity (Stocks / Mutual Funds)We recommend exposure to equity through mutual funds, not direct stock picking. This can be done either through equity mutual funds or the NPS (National Pension System) scheme.Equity Mutual Funds Keep the following in mind while choosing an equity fund:Choose Direct Plans, not Regular Plans (to avoid distributor commissions).Choose Index Funds (Passive) over Active Funds.Choose large funds from reputed houses (e.g., SBI, UTI, LIC, HDFC, ICICI, Axis) to bring down the cost burden per unit.Example (as of June 2025, Nifty-based index funds):FundCorpus (INR mn)10-yr Annualized ReturnUTI Nifty 50 Index Fund – Direct Growth232,49413.12%HDFC Nifty 50 Index Fund – Direct Growth204,09313.04%ICICI Pru Nifty 50 Index Fund – Direct Growth135,35012.96%SBI Nifty Index Fund – Direct Growth98,38712.96%Investing through NPS (National Pension System) NPS has its own system of allocation of investor funds between debt and equity based on age. Hence, within one investment scheme you could potentially meet your allocation goals for exposure to equity as well as debt.In case the NPS allocation is different from your own preferred allocation, you could select the non-NPS investments in a manner that enables you to reach your target allocation.For example:If NPS allocation to equity is lower than your preference, choose equity funds to get a higher exposure than provided by NPS.If NPS allocation to equity is higher than your preference, choose debt schemes outside NPS to get a higher exposure than provided by NPS. At the same time, NPS permits investors to choose a level of equity exposure lower than its recommended exposure for the age, but does not permit a higher exposure. Hence, you could also choose a lower exposure to equity within NPS if you so prefer.Allocate maximum permissible equity exposure under NPS for your age and choose passive funds within NPS to minimize costs.Read our knowledge article on the NPS scheme for more information.Step 5 – Investing in Debt (Fixed Income)Government-backed schemesPrioritize government schemes for fixed income investing.An overview of the popular schemes:SchemeGross ReturnTax Treatment (New Regime)Effective Post-Tax Return (10% / 20% / 30%)PPF~7.1%Fully tax-free7.1 / 7.1 / 7.1SCSS~8.2%Interest taxable7.38 / 6.56 / 5.74NSC~7.7%Interest taxable6.93 / 6.16 / 5.39NPS (National Pension System)NPS can serve the need for both equity as well as fixed income investing since it follows an age-based allocation system.Some thumb rules:NPS permits investors to choose a level of equity exposure lower than its recommended exposure for the age, but does not permit a higher exposure. Hence, you could also choose a lower exposure to equity within NPS to reach your optimum allocation.If NPS allocation to debt is higher than your preference, choose equity funds outside NPS to get a higher exposure than provided by NPS.Step 6 – OngoingEnsure that tax implications are factored in, at the time of investment, on the income that is generated, and on liquidation or encashment.Review allocation and investments periodically, but at least annually, and rebalance. Market fluctuations may cause deviations.At any point of time, do not hesitate to reach out to an expert for guidance. You can reach the Dhanopinion investment advisors at contact@dhanopinion.com.
